Improving Nip01 Text (#963)
nostr-protocol/nips: 01.md

NIP-01
======

Nostr Protocol
--------------

`draft` `mandatory`

This NIP defines the mandatory part of the Nostr protocol. New NIPs may add new optional (or mandatory) fields, messages, and features to the structures and flows described here.

> # Events

Reviewer: I always call these Notes instead of Events in my codebases, but maybe the ship has sailed on that one because of ["EVENT",...]

Reviewer 2: "event" was probably a poor name choice, but "relay" too.

Reviewer 3: I thought kind 1 events are "notes". All notes are events but not all events are notes.

NIP-01
======

> Nostr Protocol

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Basic Protocol
```

The title "Nostr Protocol" is pretty cool, but it is meaningless, because I think all NIPs are descriptions of the Nostr protocol.

Author: Yeah. I was trying to find a way to say that this is the only mandatory part everyone must code. Everything else is optional. "The Basic Flow" before wasn't doing it. 

The other idea was to avoid the assumption that the "Nostr Protocol" includes all NIPs, which I think makes it too big for our own good.

Reviewer 5: > Yeah. I was trying to find a way to say that this is the only mandatory part everyone must code. Everything else is optional. "The Basic Flow" before wasn't doing it. 
> 
> The other idea was to avoid the assumption that the "Nostr Protocol" includes all NIPs, which I think makes it too big for our own good. 
> 
> 

This.

NIP-01 is the protocol and the other NIPs are optional conventions. One could even say, _layers_, built on top of NIP-01

Reviewer 4: Yeah, that make sense to me. Thanks.

  - tab character: `0x09` to `\t`
  - backspace: `0x08` to `\b`
  - form feed: `0x0C` to `\f`

Then proceed to sign the `.id` with the user's private key. 

## Verifying

To verify the authenticity of an event: 
1. Recalculate the `.id` and check against the incoming `.id`
2. Verify if the signature is valid for the `.id` and `.pubkey`. 

## Kinds

The `.kind` attribute specifies the meaning of an event, its tags and it is further defined in the various NIPs in this repository

Specific ranges define storage behaviors: 

| Name          | Range                             | SHOULD retain                                          |
| ------------- | --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Regular       | ` 1000 <= kind < 10000`           | All events                                             |
| Replaceable   | `10000 <= kind < 20000` OR `0, 3` | The newest event for each `pubkey` and `kind`          |
| Ephemeral     | `20000 <= kind < 30000`           | Nothing                                                |
| Parameterized | `30000 <= kind < 40000`           | The newest event for each `pubkey`, `kind` and `d`-tag |

> Parameterized Replaceable events MUST include a `d`-tag with an identifier value to be used as a reference. Tag values that reference the newest replaceable MUST use this format: `<kind>:<32-byte lowercase hex of a pubkey>:<d-tag value>`.

Reviewer 6: I like this emphasis on #d (see my confusion here: https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/pull/982)

In case of replaceable events with the same timestamp, the event with the lowest `.id` (first in lexical order) SHOULD be retained. Older versions MAY be kept but SHOULD not be returned on queries.

This NIP defines the `kind:0` as **User Metadata**. The `.content` is set to a stringified JSON object `{name: <user's name, string>, about: <string>, picture: <url, string>}`. Since other attributes might exist, Clients SHOULD preserve any unsupported attribute when updating this event. 

## Tags

Each tag is an array of strings of arbitrary size. Their meaning is determined by the event `.kind`. Tags with the same name might have entirely different meanings in different kinds. 

The first element of the tag array is referred to as the tag _name_ and the second as the tag _value_. All elements after the second do not have a conventional name.

All single-letter (only English alphabet letters: a-z, A-Z) tag names are indexed by relays for faster queries. 

> This NIP defines the format of 3 standard tags: `e`, `p`, and `a`. Tags `e`, `p` can be used to reference events and pubkeys respectively, and tag `a` references the latest version of a replaceable event. Clients MAY `a`- and `e`-tag parameterized replaceables simultaneously.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This NIP defines the format of 4 standard tags: `e`, `p`, `a` and `d`. Tags `e`, `p` can be used to reference events and pubkeys respectively, and tag `a` references the latest version of a replaceable event. Clients MAY set `a`- and `e`-tag parameterized replaceables simultaneously.
```

Author: Do we really need to duplicate the definition here? It was already defined in the previous section.

| Name | Value                                                      | Other Params            |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| `e`  | `<32-byte lowercase hex of an event id>`                   | `<relay URL, optional>` |
| `p`  | `<32-byte lowercase hex of a pubkey>`                      | `<relay URL, optional>` |
| `a`  | `<kind>:<32-byte lowercase hex of a pubkey>:`              | `<relay URL, optional>` |

> | `a`  | `<kind>:<32-byte lowercase hex of a pubkey>:<d-tag value>` | `<relay URL, optional>` |

Reviewer 6: Where is now #d ?

Reviewer 6: Let me explain why I have difficulties with the "d" tag.
I looked at the README and saw: "Aha, there's an official #d. Let me have a look at what this means."
I then go to NIP-01 where it's supposed to be defined. I ctrl-f through the page on GitHub and don't find it.

After your PR here, when I ctrl-f, I'll still be confused because I'm lazy and I'll find two things:
* A statement saying 
  > This NIP defines the format of 3 standard tags: `e`, `p`, and `a`.
  
  Where the heck is now #d?
* A table with `e`, `p` and `a`
  Why the heck is it missing #d?

`draft` `mandatory`

This NIP defines the mandatory part of the Nostr protocol. New NIPs may add new fields, message kinds, and features to the structures and flows described here.

# Signed Events

> Events are the only data type transferred across the network. They consist in 4 main attributes: 

Reviewer 7: 5 main attributes

Reviewer 8: 3 m'lord, 3

Reviewer 6: 6 if you count `id`?

Reviewer 7: 5 things are hashed:  pubkey, created_at, kind, tags, and content.   The other 2 are generated:  id, sig

Array properties (i.e. `ids`, `authors`, `kinds`, and tag filters) represent a logical OR statement. At least one of the arrays' values must match the respective field in the event to be considered a match. In the case of tag attributes such as `#e`, for which an event may have multiple values, the event and filter condition values must have at least one item in common.

The `ids`, `authors`, `#e`, and `#p` filter lists MUST contain exact 64-character lowercase hex values.

The `since` and `until` properties are used to specify the time range of events returned in the subscription. An event matches the filter if `since <= created_at <= until` holds.

The `limit` property informs the maximum number of events to return, sorted by created_at desc. It operates over the previously-stored events and is ignored afterward. 

### Receiving Events

Relays send 3 types of messages during a subscription:  

  * `["EVENT", <subscription_id>, <JSON-serialized string of the event>]`, used to send events requested by clients.
  * `["EOSE", <subscription_id>]`, used to indicate the _end of stored events_ and the beginning of events newly received in real-time.

>   * `["CLOSED", <subscription_id>, <prefix>:<message>]`, used to indicate that a subscription was ended on the server side.

Reviewer 2: why isn't the `OK` message listed here?

Author: I split them into a subscription protocol and a publishing protocol.
